<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="content-type" /><link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" /></head><body class="body0"><p class="para8" id="anchor-intro"><span class="span5">Introduction</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">A tech stock is a company whose primary asset is accumulated engineering knowledge; such as software, chip architectures, platforms, algorithms, and the developer or user ecosystems built around them, rather than a physical factory. The Knowledge Asset Impairment Model (KAIM) does not propose to replace GAAP. It asks a narrow question GAAP was never designed to answer: what would this company's balance sheet look like if its knowledge factory were capitalized the same way as its physical factory?</span></p><p class="para10"><span class="span7">The Core Move: Treating R&amp;D as a Production Floor</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">Under GAAP, when a company builds a physical factory, the cost is capitalized as an asset and depreciated over its useful life. When a company builds a knowledge factory — by hiring engineers, running compute, and developing architectures — the entire cost is expensed the year it is incurred. Both are real investments in future productive capacity. Only one appears on the balance sheet.</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">KAIM corrects this asymmetry by capitalizing 20 years of R&amp;D spending as a Knowledge Capital Stock (KCS), inflation-adjusting it to constant dollars, and holding it at full value unless one of three specific, observable triggers provides evidence that the knowledge has actually stopped producing: innovation stagnation, platform abandonment, or competitive displacement. Where a company discloses them, KAIM also adds forward contract assets: committed chip purchases and cloud service agreements that are economically real but sit off the GAAP balance sheet in footnotes.</span></p><p class="para10"><span class="span7">Augmenting GAAP, Not Replacing It</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">This distinction matters and is worth stating plainly. GAAP exists to produce comparable, auditable, conservative financial statements across every industry, and it does that job well for capital-intensive, physical-asset businesses. KAIM is not an alternative accounting standard, has not been reviewed by any auditor, and should never be mistaken for a substitute for GAAP filings. It is a research lens — a restated view layered on top of reported GAAP figures, built specifically to surface a single distortion: the invisibility of knowledge capital for R&amp;D-intensive companies.</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">The model is also self-limiting by design. Berkshire Hathaway, included in this analysis as a deliberate control case, shows almost no correction under KAIM — its GAAP book value already reflects its economic reality, because its value comes from capital allocation rather than R&amp;D-driven knowledge production. ExxonMobil shows a similarly small correction, for the same reason: its productive value genuinely sits in physical reserves. KAIM does not inflate every company's book value; it corrects the specific distortion that exists only where R&amp;D investment is large and persistently expensed.</span></p><p class="para10"><span class="span7">What This Book Covers</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">The chapters that follow walk through the full KAIM methodology using NVIDIA as the primary case study, then apply the identical eight-step process to the remaining six Magnificent Seven companies and seven additional large-cap companies spanning healthcare, financial services, retail, energy, and consumer staples. Where a company's own 10-K discloses a clear, auditable forward commitment figure, it is added to that company's KAIM Book Value; where no such disclosure exists, the model conservatively omits it rather than estimate a number the company has not reported. Every multiple, trigger test, and book value restatement in this book is built from the same eight-step process, applied consistently, so the comparisons across companies and sectors are apples-to-apples within the limits of what each company discloses.</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">The goal is not to declare any individual stock cheap or expensive. It is to give the reader a second, more complete view of the balance sheet — one that makes the knowledge factory visible alongside the physical one, so that the residual valuation question becomes easier to ask honestly: once the accounting is corrected, what is the market actually paying for?</span></p><p class="para11"><span class="span8">A Note on What This Book Is Not: </span><span class="span9">Nothing in this book constitutes financial, investment, legal, or accounting advice, and none of it should be acted upon as such. KAIM is presented here as a hypothesis — a new way of thinking about how to value companies in the knowledge-based technology sector — not as a validated forecasting tool, an audited methodology, or a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Every figure in this book is an analytical reconstruction built from public disclosures for illustrative and educational purposes. Readers considering any investment decision should consult a licensed financial advisor and rely on audited financial statements, not the restated figures presented here.</span></p><p class="para7"> </p><p class="para8 toc-start"><span class="span10">Table of Contents</span></p><p class="para12"><span class="span11"><a href="section0002.xhtml#anchor-intro">Introduction</a></span></p><p class="para12"><span class="span11"><a href="section0003.xhtml#anchor-howto">How to Value a Tech Stock Using the KAIM Model</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0003.xhtml#anchor-step1">Step 1: Understand What You Are Really Valuing</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0003.xhtml#anchor-step2">Step 2: Collect the R&amp;D History — Build the Knowledge Capital Stock (KCS)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0003.xhtml#anchor-step3">Step 3: Inflation-Adjust the KCS to Constant Dollars</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0003.xhtml#anchor-step4">Step 4: Run the Three Impairment Trigger Tests</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0003.xhtml#anchor-step5">Step 5: Add Forward Contract Assets</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0003.xhtml#anchor-step6">Step 6: Build the KAIM-Restated Balance Sheet</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0003.xhtml#anchor-step7">Step 7: Calculate the KAIM Price-to-Book Multiple</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0003.xhtml#anchor-step8">Step 8: Interpret the Residual Multiple</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0003.xhtml#anchor-opmetrics">KAIM-Derived Operating Metrics</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0003.xhtml#anchor-checklist">KAIM Valuation Quick Reference Checklist</a></span></p><p class="para12"><span class="span11"><a href="section0004.xhtml#anchor-app1">Appendix 1: Magnificent 7 KAIM Analysis — FY2025</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0004.xhtml#anchor-msft">Microsoft (MSFT)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0004.xhtml#anchor-aapl">Apple (AAPL)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0004.xhtml#anchor-googl">Alphabet (GOOGL)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0004.xhtml#anchor-meta">Meta (META)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0004.xhtml#anchor-amzn">Amazon (AMZN)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0004.xhtml#anchor-tsla">Tesla (TSLA)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0004.xhtml#anchor-app1summary">Appendix 1 Summary: All Mag 7 KAIM P/B Comparison</a></span></p><p class="para12"><span class="span11"><a href="section0005.xhtml#anchor-app2">Appendix 2: Non-Tech Large Caps KAIM Analysis — FY2025</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0005.xhtml#anchor-jnj">Johnson &amp; Johnson (JNJ)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0005.xhtml#anchor-jpm">JPMorgan Chase (JPM)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0005.xhtml#anchor-wmt">Walmart (WMT)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0005.xhtml#anchor-xom">ExxonMobil (XOM)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0005.xhtml#anchor-unh">UnitedHealth Group (UNH)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0005.xhtml#anchor-pg">Procter &amp; Gamble (PG)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0005.xhtml#anchor-brkb">Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.B)</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0005.xhtml#anchor-app2summary">Appendix 2 Summary: Non-Tech KAIM P/B Comparison</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0005.xhtml#anchor-crosssector">Cross-Sector Findings</a></span></p><p class="para12"><span class="span11"><a href="section0006.xhtml#anchor-refs">References &amp; Data Sources</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0006.xhtml#anchor-primarydata">Primary Financial Data</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0006.xhtml#anchor-inflation">Inflation Adjustment</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0006.xhtml#anchor-forwardsrc">Forward Contract Asset Sources</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0006.xhtml#anchor-concepts">Conceptual Foundations &amp; Related Literature</a></span></p><p class="para13"><span class="span12"><a href="section0006.xhtml#anchor-disclaimers">Disclaimers &amp; Limitations</a></span></p><p class="para7"> </p></body></html>