<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="content-type" /><link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" /></head><body class="body0"><p class="para8" id="anchor-refs"><span class="span5">References &amp; Data Sources</span></p><p class="para15"> </p><p class="para10" id="anchor-primarydata"><span class="span7">Primary Financial Data</span></p><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">SEC EDGAR — 10-K Annual Filings</span></p><p class="para35"><span class="span9">All R&amp;D expense figures for NVIDIA, Microsoft, Apple, Alphabet, Meta, Amazon, Tesla, Johnson &amp; Johnson, JPMorgan Chase, Walmart, ExxonMobil, UnitedHealth Group, Procter &amp; Gamble, and Berkshire Hathaway for fiscal years FY2006–FY2025. Retrieved from sec.gov/edgar. Specific filings: Income Statement line 'Research and Development Expense' (or equivalent classification).</span></p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">MacroTrends — Historical Financials</span></p><p class="para35"><span class="span9">Cross-reference source for R&amp;D expense history and shareholders' equity figures. Used to verify SEC EDGAR data across all 14 companies. Retrieved from macrotrends.net.</span></p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">Companies Market Cap</span></p><p class="para35"><span class="span9">Market capitalization figures at fiscal year-end dates for all 14 companies. Retrieved from companiesmarketcap.com. Figures used: NVIDIA Jan 2025, Microsoft Jun 2025, Apple Sep 2025, Alphabet/Meta/Amazon/Tesla Dec 2025, and all Appendix 2 companies at their respective FY-end dates.</span></p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">Company Annual Reports</span></p><p class="para35"><span class="span9">Supplementary data for forward contract assets (hardware purchase commitments, cloud service agreements), segment revenue figures, and product roadmap information. Sources: NVIDIA FY2025 10-K (Form 10-K filed with SEC, fiscal year ending January 26, 2025), and equivalent filings for all other companies.</span></p><p class="para25"> </p><p class="para10" id="anchor-inflation"><span class="span7">Inflation Adjustment</span></p><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics — CPI-U</span></p><p class="para36"><span class="span9">Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U), All Items, Not Seasonally Adjusted. Series ID: CUUR0000SA0. Retrieved from bls.gov/cpi. January index values used for each fiscal year deflator calculation.</span></p><p class="para37"><span class="span17">Example: Jan 2025 index: 317.67. Applied to all 14 companies across 20-year R&amp;D windows.</span></p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">Deflator Methodology</span></p><p class="para36"><span class="span9">Each year's nominal R&amp;D multiplied by (CPI_Jan2025 / CPI_Jan[year]). Years prior to FY2006 use the earliest available index value. Real KCS = sum of all CPI-adjusted annual R&amp;D figures over the 20-year window.</span></p><p class="para37"><span class="span17">Example: FY2006 deflator (Jan 2006 CPI: 198.3): 317.67 / 198.3 = 1.602x</span></p><p class="para25"> </p><p class="para10" id="anchor-forwardsrc"><span class="span7">Forward Contract Asset Sources</span></p><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">NVIDIA — Hardware Purchase Commitments</span></p><p class="para36"><span class="span9">NVIDIA FY2025 10-K, Note 14 (Commitments and Contingencies). Purchase commitments: $30.8B. Applied at 80% recognition rate x 25% cost basis = $6.16B.</span></p><p class="para35"><span class="span15">Source: sec.gov/edgar — NVIDIA 10-K FY2025</span></p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">NVIDIA — Cloud Service Agreements</span></p><p class="para36"><span class="span9">NVIDIA FY2025 10-K, Note 14. Non-inventory purchase obligations (cloud and service agreements): $10.9B. Applied at 100% contract value.</span></p><p class="para35"><span class="span15">Source: sec.gov/edgar — NVIDIA 10-K FY2025</span></p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">H20 Export Control Precedent</span></p><p class="para36"><span class="span9">Reference for 20% hardware commitment haircut. U.S. Department of Commerce export control rules restricting H20 GPU sales to China, resulting in NVIDIA recording an $8B charge in Q1 FY2026. Reported April 2025.</span></p><p class="para35"><span class="span15">Source: Reuters, Bloomberg, NVIDIA 8-K filing April 2025</span></p><p class="para25"> </p><p class="para10" id="anchor-concepts"><span class="span7">Conceptual Foundations &amp; Related Literature</span></p><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">Lev, B. &amp; Sougiannis, T. (1996)</span></p><p class="para36"><span class="span30">"The Capitalization, Amortization, and Value-Relevance of R&amp;D." Journal of Accounting and Economics, 21(1), 107–138.</span></p><p class="para38"><span class="span9">Foundational empirical study demonstrating that R&amp;D expenditures have value-relevant information content and that capitalized R&amp;D improves earnings predictability.</span></p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">Lev, B. &amp; Zarowin, P. (1999)</span></p><p class="para36"><span class="span30">"The Boundaries of Financial Reporting and How to Extend Them." Journal of Accounting Research, 37(2), 353–385.</span></p><p class="para38"><span class="span9">Documents the declining relevance of earnings and book value under GAAP for firms with high intangible intensity.</span></p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">Corrado, C., Hulten, C. &amp; Sichel, D. (2009)</span></p><p class="para36"><span class="span30">"Intangible Capital and U.S. Economic Growth." Review of Income and Wealth, 55(3), 661–685.</span></p><p class="para38"><span class="span9">Broad macroeconomic treatment of intangible capital — including R&amp;D, software, and organizational capital — as productive investment omitted from national accounts.</span></p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">Peters, R. &amp; Taylor, L. (2017)</span></p><p class="para36"><span class="span30">"Intangible Capital and the Investment-q Relation." Journal of Financial Economics, 123(2), 251–272.</span></p><p class="para38"><span class="span9">Proposes a method for capitalizing R&amp;D and SG&amp;A to construct firm-level intangible capital stock. Direct methodological antecedent to the KCS construction in KAIM.</span></p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">Lev, B. (2018)</span></p><p class="para36"><span class="span30">"The Deteriorating Usefulness of Financial Report Information and How to Reverse It." Accounting and Business Research, 48(5), 465–493.</span></p><p class="para38"><span class="span9">Reviews the growing failure of GAAP to capture value for knowledge-intensive companies and proposes accounting reforms.</span></p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">FASB ASC 730</span></p><p class="para36"><span class="span30">Financial Accounting Standards Board — Accounting Standards Codification Topic 730: Research and Development. Governs the immediate expensing of R&amp;D under U.S. GAAP.</span></p><p class="para38"><span class="span9">The specific rule KAIM restates. Under ASC 730, all R&amp;D costs must be charged to expense when incurred, with limited exceptions for acquired in-process R&amp;D in business combinations.</span></p><p class="para34"><span class="span8">IAS 38 (IFRS)</span></p><p class="para36"><span class="span30">International Accounting Standard 38: Intangible Assets. Under IFRS, development costs meeting specific criteria may be capitalized; research costs must be expensed.</span></p><p class="para38"><span class="span9">Contrast to U.S. GAAP: IFRS permits limited capitalization of development-phase spending, providing a partial international precedent for KAIM's approach.</span></p><p class="para25"> </p><p class="para10" id="anchor-disclaimers"><span class="span7">Disclaimers &amp; Limitations</span></p><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para39"><span class="span22">1. </span><span class="span22"> </span><span class="span23">All KAIM figures are analytical reconstructions for illustrative and educational purposes only. They do not represent audited financial statements and have not been reviewed or endorsed by any of the companies analyzed.</span></p><p class="para39"><span class="span22">2. </span><span class="span22"> </span><span class="span23">R&amp;D expense data for JPMorgan Chase, Walmart, UnitedHealth Group, and Berkshire Hathaway is estimated from disclosed technology investment figures, as these companies do not report a formal R&amp;D line item. These proxies introduce additional uncertainty relative to companies with explicit R&amp;D disclosure.</span></p><p class="para39"><span class="span22">3. </span><span class="span22"> </span><span class="span23">Market capitalization figures reflect fiscal year-end dates and may differ from figures at other measurement dates. NVIDIA's market capitalization is referenced as of January 2025 (fiscal year end), which preceded significant subsequent price movements.</span></p><p class="para39"><span class="span22">4. </span><span class="span22"> </span><span class="span23">The 20-year productive life assumption is a modelling choice, not an audited useful life determination. Actual economic useful lives of specific R&amp;D investments may be shorter or longer. The impairment trigger framework is designed to surface cases where this assumption is materially incorrect.</span></p><p class="para39"><span class="span22">5. </span><span class="span22"> </span><span class="span23">This publication does not constitute investment advice. Nothing herein should be construed as a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Past performance of any company's R&amp;D investment or stock price is not indicative of future results.</span></p><p class="para39"><span class="span22">6. </span><span class="span22"> </span><span class="span23">CPI-U deflators from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics are used as a proxy for R&amp;D input cost inflation. Actual input cost inflation for engineering labor and compute resources may diverge from general CPI, particularly in periods of rapid AI-related demand for specialized talent and GPU compute.</span></p></body></html>