<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="content-type" /><link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" /></head><body class="body0"><p class="para14" id="anchor-howto"><span class="span5">How to Value a Tech Stock Using the KAIM Model</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">When you look up a company like NVIDIA or Microsoft on any financial data service, you will find a price-to-book (P/B) ratio in the tens or hundreds. Conventional wisdom says this means the stock is 'expensive' or 'speculative.' KAIM says something different: the accounting is broken, not the company.</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">The root cause is a simple accounting rule. Under GAAP, when a company spends money building a factory — buying land, pouring concrete, installing machines — that cost goes on the balance sheet as an asset. But when a tech company spends the equivalent building its knowledge factory — hiring engineers, running compute, developing architectures — every dollar is expensed immediately. The factory is real. The balance sheet pretends it does not exist.</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">The KAIM model fixes this by treating R&amp;D as the production floor and revenue as the product. Just as a steel mill's furnaces produce steel, a tech company's accumulated R&amp;D produces software, chips, platforms, and ecosystems. Those assets should sit on the balance sheet — and they should only be written down when observable economic evidence shows they have stopped producing.</span></p><p class="para10 step-start" id="anchor-step1"><span class="span7">Step 1: Understand What You Are Really Valuing</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">Before touching any numbers, reframe the company in production terms. A tech company has three layers of productive assets — only one of which appears on the GAAP balance sheet:</span></p><p class="para15"> </p><div class="cardgroup"><div class="card"><p class="card-title">Physical Capital</p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Description: </span><span class="card-value">Servers, offices, data centers, equipment.</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">GAAP Treatment: </span><span class="card-value">On balance sheet. Depreciated over useful life.</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">KAIM Treatment: </span><span class="card-value">Same as GAAP — no change needed.</span></p></div><div class="card"><p class="card-title">Knowledge Capital (R&amp;D Factory)</p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Description: </span><span class="card-value">Accumulated engineering work: architectures, algorithms, software platforms, developer ecosystems.</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">GAAP Treatment: </span><span class="card-value">Expensed immediately. Zero balance sheet representation. Invisible.</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">KAIM Treatment: </span><span class="card-value">Capitalized as Knowledge Capital Stock (KCS). Held at full value unless an impairment trigger fires.</span></p></div><div class="card"><p class="card-title">Forward Contract Capital</p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Description: </span><span class="card-value">Unshipped chip orders, cloud service agreements, long-term supply commitments.</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">GAAP Treatment: </span><span class="card-value">Off-balance sheet. Mentioned in footnotes only.</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">KAIM Treatment: </span><span class="card-value">Added as forward assets — chip orders at cost basis (risk-adjusted), cloud contracts at full value.</span></p></div></div><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para18"><span class="span15">Table 1: The three layers of productive assets and how KAIM treats each.</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">The factory analogy in plain terms: NVIDIA's CUDA platform was built over twenty years of R&amp;D. Every dollar of that investment was expensed the year it was spent. The balance sheet shows zero. But CUDA is the reason every AI lab on earth uses NVIDIA hardware. It is the factory. KAIM puts it back on the books.</span></p><p class="para10 step-start" id="anchor-step2"><span class="span7">Step 2: Collect the R&amp;D History — Build the Knowledge Capital Stock (KCS)</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">Go to the SEC EDGAR database (sec.gov/edgar) and pull the company's 10-K annual filings for the past 20 years. From each 10-K income statement, find 'Research and Development Expense.' Write down every year's figure. This is your raw material.</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">The 20-year window is deliberate and empirically grounded. Enterprise software routinely stays in production for two decades. CUDA (2006) still dominates AI compute in 2026. A five-year amortization schedule would have written CUDA to zero four times over. KAIM uses 20 years as the default productive life.</span></p><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para19"><span class="span16">KCS = Sum of all R&amp;D expenditures over the prior 20 fiscal years minus any impairment charges from triggered write-downs</span></p><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">Why R&amp;D is the production floor: Each year's R&amp;D spend is not a cost — it is a capital investment in capability. The $357M NVIDIA spent in FY2006 bought the engineering hours that produced CUDA. The $12.9B in FY2025 is buying Blackwell Ultra and robotics AI platforms. In a steel mill, you can see the furnaces. In a tech company, the furnaces are in the income statement, hiding as an expense.</span></p><p class="para10 step-start" id="anchor-step3"><span class="span7">Step 3: Inflation-Adjust the KCS to Constant Dollars</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">A dollar spent on R&amp;D in FY2007 bought more engineering hours than a dollar in FY2025 — salaries, compute costs, and fab costs have all risen. Apply a CPI-U deflator from the BLS to each year's R&amp;D:</span></p><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para19"><span class="span16">Real R&amp;D(year) = Nominal R&amp;D(year) x (CPI_today / CPI_year) Real KCS = Sum of all inflation-adjusted R&amp;D over 20 years</span></p><p class="para15"> </p><p class="para20"><span class="span8">Step 3a: </span><span class="span8"> </span><span class="span6">Find CPI-U (All Urban Consumers, BLS) for January of each fiscal year at bls.gov/cpi.</span></p><p class="para21"><span class="span17">Example: Jan 2017: 242.84 </span><span class="span17"> </span><span class="span17">| </span><span class="span17"> </span><span class="span17">Jan 2025: 317.67</span></p><p class="para20"><span class="span8">Step 3b: </span><span class="span8"> </span><span class="span6">Divide current CPI by year's CPI to get deflator. Older dollars get deflators above 1.0.</span></p><p class="para21"><span class="span17">Example: FY2007 deflator: 317.67 / 202.4 = 1.570x</span></p><p class="para20"><span class="span8">Step 3c: </span><span class="span8"> </span><span class="span6">Multiply each year's nominal R&amp;D by its deflator.</span></p><p class="para21"><span class="span17">Example: FY2007: $554M x 1.570 = $870M real</span></p><p class="para20"><span class="span8">Step 3d: </span><span class="span8"> </span><span class="span6">Sum all inflation-adjusted figures. This is your Real KCS.</span></p><p class="para21"><span class="span17">Example: NVIDIA Real KCS: ~$65.8B vs $57.0B nominal</span></p><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para18"><span class="span15">Table 3: CPI adjustment procedure. The Real KCS is higher than nominal because older R&amp;D dollars had greater purchasing power.</span></p><p class="para10 step-start" id="anchor-step4"><span class="span7">Step 4: Run the Three Impairment Trigger Tests</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">KAIM holds the KCS at full value unless an observable economic trigger fires. This replaces arbitrary amortization schedules with real-world evidence of obsolescence. The core principle: knowledge does not decay on a calendar. It decays when the world stops using it.</span></p><p class="para15"> </p><div class="cardgroup"><div class="card"><p class="card-title">T1: Innovation Stagnation</p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Definition: </span><span class="card-value">No meaningful new product output for 5-7 consecutive years.</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">How to Check: </span><span class="card-value">Check product release cadence. 5+ years of silence = trigger.</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Treatment: </span><span class="card-value">Begin straight-line depreciation from trigger date over estimated remaining competitive life.</span></p></div><div class="card"><p class="card-title">T2: Platform Abandonment</p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Definition: </span><span class="card-value">Company formally ends support for a product line.</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">How to Check: </span><span class="card-value">Check end-of-life announcements and support calendars.</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Treatment: </span><span class="card-value">Write down attributed KCS. Offset against successor product R&amp;D. Net impact zero if actively replaced.</span></p></div><div class="card"><p class="card-title">T3: Competitive Displacement</p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Definition: </span><span class="card-value">Revenue retention on affected product falls below 85% for 2+ consecutive years.</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">How to Check: </span><span class="card-value">&gt;90% = 0% impairment, 80-90% = 50% impairment, &lt;80% = 100% impairment begins.</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Treatment: </span><span class="card-value">Scale impairment proportionally to retention deterioration.</span></p></div></div><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para18"><span class="span15">Table 4: Three KAIM impairment triggers, test methodology, and accounting response.</span></p><p class="para10 step-start" id="anchor-step5"><span class="span7">Step 5: Add Forward Contract Assets</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">The KCS covers what has already been built. A healthy tech company also has committed future revenue — economically real but absent from the balance sheet. KAIM adds two categories of forward assets:</span></p><p class="para15"> </p><div class="cardgroup"><div class="card"><p class="card-title">Chip / Hardware Purchase Orders (unshipped)</p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Source: </span><span class="card-value">10-K footnotes: 'Purchase Commitments' or 'Inventory Obligations.'</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Recognition Rate: </span><span class="card-value">80% of committed amount</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Valuation Method: </span><span class="card-value">Cost basis only: recognized amount x (1 - gross margin %)</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Risk Notes: </span><span class="card-value">Hardware orders carry geopolitical cancellation risk (H20 precedent: $8B scrapped in one quarter). 20% reserve. Margin recognized on delivery.</span></p></div><div class="card card-newpage"><p class="card-title">Cloud / Software Service Agreements (multi-year)</p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Source: </span><span class="card-value">10-K footnotes: 'Non-Inventory Obligations' or 'Cloud Commitments.'</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Recognition Rate: </span><span class="card-value">100% of contract value</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Valuation Method: </span><span class="card-value">Full contract value — no cost deduction</span></p><p class="card-row"><span class="card-label">Risk Notes: </span><span class="card-value">Enterprise cloud contracts carry heavy termination penalties and deep switching costs. Structural cancellation rate &lt;2%. Recognized at full value.</span></p></div></div><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para18"><span class="span15">Table 5: Forward asset recognition rules. Hardware at cost; software at full value.</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">NVIDIA example (Q4 FY2025):</span></p><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para19"><span class="span16">Chip purchase commitments: $30.8B x 80% x 25% cost ratio = $6.16B Cloud service agreements: $10.9B x 100% = $10.90B Total Forward Asset Addition: $17.06B</span></p><p class="para10 step-start" id="anchor-step6"><span class="span7">Step 6: Build the KAIM-Restated Balance Sheet</span></p><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para19"><span class="span16">KAIM Book Value = GAAP Shareholders' Equity + Knowledge Capital Stock (KCS, nominal or real) + Hardware Backlog at Cost (80% recognition) + Cloud Contract Value (100% recognition)</span></p><p class="para15"> </p><div class="keep-together"><p class="para22"><span class="span18">NVIDIA (NVDA)</span></p><table class="table3"><tbody><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable26"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">Reported Shareholders' Equity</span></p></td><td class="cellTable27"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">$79.3B</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable28"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">+ Knowledge Capital Stock (nominal, 20yr)</span></p></td><td class="cellTable29"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">$57.0B</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable26"><p class="para7"><span class="span19"> </span><span class="span19">(or: Real KCS, CPI-adjusted)</span></p></td><td class="cellTable27"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">$65.8B</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable28"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">+ Hardware Backlog at Cost (80% x 25%)</span></p></td><td class="cellTable29"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">$6.2B</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable26"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">+ Cloud Service Agreements (100%)</span></p></td><td class="cellTable27"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">$10.9B</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable28"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">KAIM Book Value — Nominal KCS</span></p></td><td class="cellTable30"><p class="para23"><span class="span19">$153.3B</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable26"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">KAIM Book Value — Real KCS (best)</span></p></td><td class="cellTable30"><p class="para23"><span class="span19">$162.2B</span></p></td></tr></tbody></table></div><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para18"><span class="span15">Table 6: NVIDIA KAIM-restated balance sheet FY2025. GAAP book of $79.3B expands to $153-162B once the full knowledge factory and forward contract value are recognized.</span></p><p class="para10 step-start" id="anchor-step7"><span class="span7">Step 7: Calculate the KAIM Price-to-Book Multiple</span></p><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para19"><span class="span16">KAIM P/B = Market Capitalization / KAIM Book Value NVIDIA (Jan 2025): GAAP P/B = $3,390B / $79.3B = ~42.7x KAIM P/B = $3,390B / $162.2B = ~20.9x (real KCS + forward assets)</span></p><p class="para15"> </p><div class="keep-together"><p class="para22"><span class="span18">NVIDIA (NVDA)</span></p><table class="table4"><tbody><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable31"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">GAAP P/B</span></p></td><td class="cellTable32"><p class="para23"><span class="span13">~42.7x</span></p></td><td class="cellTable33"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Accounting artifact, hides the R&amp;D factory</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable34"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">KAIM P/B — Nominal KCS only</span></p></td><td class="cellTable35"><p class="para23"><span class="span13">~24.9x</span></p></td><td class="cellTable36"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Primary correction: 20yr R&amp;D at historical cost</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable31"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">KAIM P/B — Real KCS only</span></p></td><td class="cellTable32"><p class="para23"><span class="span13">~23.4x</span></p></td><td class="cellTable33"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Adds inflation adjustment</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable34"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">KAIM P/B — Nominal + Forward Assets</span></p></td><td class="cellTable35"><p class="para23"><span class="span13">~22.1x</span></p></td><td class="cellTable36"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Adds chip backlog + cloud contracts</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable37"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">KAIM P/B — Real + Forward Assets (best)</span></p></td><td class="cellTable38"><p class="para23"><span class="span13">~20.9x</span></p></td><td class="cellTable39"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Best estimate — inflation + risk-adjusted</span></p></td></tr></tbody></table></div><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para18"><span class="span15">Table 7: All KAIM P/B versions for NVIDIA FY2025.</span></p><p class="para10 step-start" id="anchor-step8"><span class="span7">Step 8: Interpret the Residual Multiple</span></p><p class="para9"><span class="span6">The KAIM P/B is not the end of the analysis — it is the beginning of a more honest one. Once you have corrected the accounting, the residual multiple tells you what genuine forward expectations the market is pricing.</span></p><p class="para15"> </p><table class="table5"><tbody><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable40"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">1x–3x</span></p></td><td class="cellTable41"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Market prices knowledge asset base with modest forward expectations.</span></p></td><td class="cellTable42"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Potentially undervalued. Check for Trigger 1 or 3 risk.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable43"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">3x–10x</span></p></td><td class="cellTable44"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Healthy competitive position with visible growth roadmap.</span></p></td><td class="cellTable45"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Normal range for a high-quality tech company with durable competitive advantages.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable40"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">10x–25x</span></p></td><td class="cellTable41"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Monopoly rents, ecosystem lock-in, or secular growth tailwind priced.</span></p></td><td class="cellTable42"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Requires specific narrative for moat durability. CUDA + AI buildout fits this range.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable43"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">&gt;25x</span></p></td><td class="cellTable44"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Extreme forward premium. Long-duration optionality in new markets.</span></p></td><td class="cellTable45"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">High execution risk. Re-run trigger tests carefully.</span></p></td></tr></tbody></table><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para18"><span class="span15">Table 8: Interpretive guide to KAIM P/B multiples.</span></p><p class="para7"> </p><div class="keep-together"><p class="para24" id="anchor-opmetrics"><span class="span7">KAIM-Derived Operating Metrics</span></p><p class="para15"> </p><table class="table6"><tbody><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable10"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">Monetization Efficiency</span></p></td><td class="cellTable46"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Gross Profit / KCS</span></p></td><td class="cellTable47"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Rising over time</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable14"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">Knowledge Asset Turnover</span></p></td><td class="cellTable48"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Revenue / KCS</span></p></td><td class="cellTable49"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">High and stable</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable10"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">R&amp;D Payback Period</span></p></td><td class="cellTable46"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">KCS / Gross Profit Growth ($)</span></p></td><td class="cellTable47"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Shortening</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable14"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">KCS Yield</span></p></td><td class="cellTable48"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Revenue Growth ($/yr) / R&amp;D Spend</span></p></td><td class="cellTable49"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Above 1.0 and rising</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable10"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">Backlog-to-KCS Ratio</span></p></td><td class="cellTable46"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Forward Contract Value / KCS</span></p></td><td class="cellTable47"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Stable or growing</span></p></td></tr></tbody></table></div><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para18"><span class="span15">Table 9: KAIM-derived operating metrics. See main text for full "What It Measures" definitions.</span></p><table class="table3"><tbody><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable50"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">Monetization Efficiency</span></p></td><td class="cellTable51"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">Return on the knowledge factory per dollar of capitalized R&amp;D.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable52"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">Knowledge Asset Turnover</span></p></td><td class="cellTable53"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">How efficiently the knowledge base converts to revenue. Falling = factory growing faster than sales.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable50"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">R&amp;D Payback Period</span></p></td><td class="cellTable51"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">Years until cumulative R&amp;D pays back in incremental gross profit.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable52"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">KCS Yield</span></p></td><td class="cellTable53"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">New revenue generated per R&amp;D dollar, tracked on a 3-5yr lag.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable50"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">Backlog-to-KCS Ratio</span></p></td><td class="cellTable51"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">Factory order book relative to accumulated knowledge capital. Shrinking ratio = early warning of stagnation.</span></p></td></tr></tbody></table><p class="para25"> </p><div class="keep-together"><p class="para10" id="anchor-checklist"><span class="span7">KAIM Valuation Quick Reference Checklist</span></p><p class="para15"> </p><table class="table7"><tbody><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable54"><p class="para26"><span class="span13">1</span></p></td><td class="cellTable55"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">Reframe</span></p></td><td class="cellTable56"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Annual report, 10-K</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable57"><p class="para26"><span class="span13">2</span></p></td><td class="cellTable58"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">R&amp;D History</span></p></td><td class="cellTable59"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">SEC EDGAR, 10-K filings</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable54"><p class="para26"><span class="span13">3</span></p></td><td class="cellTable55"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">CPI Adjust</span></p></td><td class="cellTable56"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">bls.gov/cpi</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable57"><p class="para26"><span class="span13">4</span></p></td><td class="cellTable58"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">Trigger Tests</span></p></td><td class="cellTable59"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Press releases, product roadmaps, segment revenue</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable54"><p class="para26"><span class="span13">5</span></p></td><td class="cellTable55"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">Forward Assets</span></p></td><td class="cellTable56"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">10-K footnotes: commitments, obligations</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable57"><p class="para26"><span class="span13">6</span></p></td><td class="cellTable58"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">Restate Book</span></p></td><td class="cellTable59"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Steps 2-5</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable54"><p class="para26"><span class="span13">7</span></p></td><td class="cellTable55"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">Calculate P/B</span></p></td><td class="cellTable56"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Financial data service for market cap</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable57"><p class="para26"><span class="span13">8</span></p></td><td class="cellTable58"><p class="para16"><span class="span13">Interpret</span></p></td><td class="cellTable59"><p class="para16"><span class="span14">Competitive analysis, moat assessment</span></p></td></tr></tbody></table></div><p class="para17"> </p><table class="table3"><tbody><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable60"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">1. Reframe</span></p></td><td class="cellTable61"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">Identify three asset layers: physical capital, knowledge capital, forward contracts.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable62"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">2. R&amp;D History</span></p></td><td class="cellTable63"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">Pull 20 years of R&amp;D expense from 10-K income statements. Sum = nominal KCS.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable60"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">3. CPI Adjust</span></p></td><td class="cellTable61"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">Deflate each year's R&amp;D to today's dollars using CPI-U ratios from BLS.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable62"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">4. Trigger Tests</span></p></td><td class="cellTable63"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">Run T1 (stagnation), T2 (abandonment), T3 (displacement). Impair only if triggered.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable60"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">5. Forward Assets</span></p></td><td class="cellTable61"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">80% of hardware backlog at cost. 100% of cloud/service contracts at full value.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable62"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">6. Restate Book</span></p></td><td class="cellTable63"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">KAIM Book = GAAP equity + KCS + hardware backlog at cost + cloud contracts.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable60"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">7. Calculate P/B</span></p></td><td class="cellTable61"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">KAIM P/B = Market Cap / KAIM Book Value.</span></p></td></tr><tr class="rowTable0"><td class="cellTable62"><p class="para7"><span class="span19">8. Interpret</span></p></td><td class="cellTable63"><p class="para23"><span class="span20">Decompose the residual multiple. What narrative justifies paying above knowledge base?</span></p></td></tr></tbody></table><p class="para17"> </p><p class="para18"><span class="span15">Table 10: KAIM valuation checklist.</span></p><p class="para15"> </p><p class="para27"><span class="span21">The factory was always there. KAIM just shows you where to look for it.</span></p><p class="para7"> </p></body></html>